# Distributions of graph properties

*By Jean-François Grailet (last updated: June 30, 2021)*

## About

**N.B.:** if you reached this part of the repository via a direct link, please note that this 
sub-folder doesn't provide the data collected by `SAGE` nor its source code. You will rather find 
them respectively in the **Dataset/** and **src/** sub-folders at the root of this repository.

You can use the content of this folder in order to visualize the distribution of various 
properties of graphs built by `INSIGHT` using data collected with `SAGE`. The provided scripts are 
designed to ease the production of figures over any period of time during which snapshots were 
captured (available in the *Dataset/* sub-repository at the root of this GitHub repository). You 
can find more details about the scripts below.

## Scripts

Here are some details about the available files and scripts.

* `CyclesDistribution.py` allows to visualize the distribution of cycles found in bipartite graphs 
  built by `INSIGHT` in function of their length (expressed in number of hops).

* `Example_targets`: a sample text file listing the ASes for which snapshots are available. Each 
  line gives an AS.

* `NeighborhoodDegrees.py` allows to visualize the distribution of the degree of neighborhoods in 
  both bipartite graphs and projections on neighborhoods built by `INSIGHT`. As a consequence, it 
  can be used to compare the degree of neighborhoods depending on the formalism being used (i.e., 
  in a neighborhood - subnet bipartite graph or in a hop-level graph). The distributions are 
  plotted as CCDFs (**C**omplementary **C**umulative **D**istribution **F**unctions) with log-log 
  scale.

* `process.sh` automates the selection of network snapshots to feed them to any of the Python 
  scripts included in this sub-repository. It receives an AS number or a text file listing ASes 
  along with two dates delimiting a period of time of your choice, plus an optional parameter to 
  name the output figure. An example of use of this script is given below.

```sh
./process.sh Examples_ASes 01-12-2019,01-01-2021 Cycles_2020
```

## Important remarks

* Each script depends on the path to the files generated by `INSIGHT` (Python scripts) or the path 
  to the data snapshots captured by `SAGE` (`process.sh`). Modify these paths (advertised by 
  *TODO* comments) prior to using the provided scripts.

* The `process.sh` file is tuned by default to use the `CyclesDistribution.py` script. Simply 
  rename the script (inputs are the same for all Python scripts) or add an additional line at the 
  end of `process.sh` to compute other/more distributions.

## Contact

**E-mail address:** Jean-Francois.Grailet@uliege.be

**Personal website:** http://www.run.montefiore.ulg.ac.be/~grailet/
